src/MCPServer/install/README.md, before:

# MCPServer Configuration

## Table of contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
- [Configuration file](#configuration-file)
- [Parameter list](#parameter-list)
- [Logging configuration](#logging-configuration)

## Introduction

Archivematica components can be configured using multipe methods.  All 
components follow the same pattern:

1. **Environment variables** - setting a configuration parameter with an 
   environment variable will override all other methods.
1. **Configuration file** - if the parameter is not set by an environment 
   variable, the component will look for a setting in its default configuration file.
1. **Application defaults**  - if the parameter is not set in an environment 
   variable or the config file, the application default is used.

Logging behaviour is configured differently, and provides two methods:

1. **`logging.json` file** - if a JSON file is present in the default location,
    the contents of the JSON file will control the components logging behaviour.
1. **Application default** - if no JSON file is present, the default logging 
   behaviour is to write to standard streams (standard out and standard error).

MCPServer specific details are provided below.

## Environment variables

The value of an environment variable is a string of characters. The
configuration system coerces the value to the types supported:

- `string` (e.g. `"foobar"`)
- `int` (e.g. `"60"`)
- `float` (e.g. `"1.20"`)
- `boolean` where truth values can be represented as follows (checked in a
  case-insensitive manner):
  - True (enabled):  `"1"`, `"yes"`, `"true"` or `"on"`
  - False (disabled): `"0"`, `"no"`, `"false"` or `"off"`

Certain environment strings are mandatory, i.e. they don't have defaults and
the application will refuse to start if the user does not provide one.

Please be aware that Archivematica supports different types of distributions
(Ubuntu/CentOS packages, Ansible or Docker images) and they may override some
of these settings or provide values to mandatory fields.

## Configuration file

There is an example configuration file for MCPServer included in the source 
code: (see [`the example`](./serverConfig.conf))

MCPClient will look for a configuration file in one of two locations:

- `/etc/archivematica/archivematicaCommon/dbsettings` 
- `/etc/archivematica/MCPServer/serverConfig.conf` 

Traditionally, the dbsettings file was used to hold mysql login credentials, 
which are then shared with other Archivematica components like MCPClient.  
Database credentials can be set in the serverConfig.conf file instead, or 
non-database parameters could be set in the dbsettings file.

## Parameter list

This is the full list of variables supported by MCPServer:

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`**:
    - **Description:** a secret key used for cryptographic signing. See [SECRET_KEY](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#secret-key) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.django_secret_key`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - :red_circle: **Mandatory!**

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_SHAREDDIRECTORY`**:
    - **Description:** location of the Archivematica Shared Directory.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.sharedDirectory`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_PROCESSINGXMLFILE`**:
    - **Description:** name of the processing configuration file.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.processingXMLFile`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"processingMCP.xml"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_MCPARCHIVEMATICASERVER`**:
    - **Description:** address of the Gearman server.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.MCPArchivematicaServer`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"localhost:4730"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_WATCHDIRECTORYPATH`**:
    - **Description:** location of the Archivematica Watched Directories.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.watchDirectoryPath`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/watchedDirectories/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_PROCESSINGDIRECTORY`**:
    - **Description:** loation of the processing directory.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.processingDirectory`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/currentlyProcessing/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_REJECTEDDIRECTORY`**:
    - **Description:** location of the rejected directory.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.rejectedDirectory`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"%%sharedPath%%rejected/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_WAITONAUTOAPPROVE`**:
    - **Description:** number of seconds that a thread will wait before attempting to approve a chain when it is pre-configured.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.waitOnAutoApprove`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"0"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_SEARCH_ENABLED`**:
    - **Description:** controls whether Elasticsearch is enabled. This can affect which options the MCP server makes available for user choices. E.g., If search is disabled, then the MCP server will not make the "Send to backlong" option available at the "Create SIP(s)" choice point.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.search_enabled`
    - **Type:** `boolean`
    - **Default:** `true`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_WATCHDIRECTORIESPOLLINTERVAL`**:
    - **Description:** time in seconds between filesystem poll intervals .
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.watchDirectoriesPollInterval`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"1"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_LIMITTASKTHREADS`**:
    - **Description:** max. number of threads that MCPServer will run simultaneously.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.limitTaskThreads`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"75"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_LIMITTASKTHREADSSLEEP`**:
    - **Description:** number of seconds that the application will wait before trying to start a new thread when the limit is reached.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.limitTaskThreadsSleep`
    - **Type:** `float`
    - **Default:** `"0.2"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_LIMITGEARMANCONNECTIONS`**:
    - **Description:** max. number of concurrent connections to Gearman server.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.limitGearmanConnections`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"10000"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_RESERVEDASTASKPROCESSINGTHREADS`**:
    - **Description:** max. number of concurrent processing threads running foreground Gearman jobs.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.reservedAsTaskProcessingThreads`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"8"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_ENGINE`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.engine`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `django.db.backends.mysql`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_DATABASE`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.database`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `MCP`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_USER`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.user`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `archivematica`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_PASSWORD`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.password`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `demo`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_HOST`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.host`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `localhost`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_PORT`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.port`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `3306`

## Logging configuration

Archivematica 1.6.1 and earlier releases are configured by default to log to
subdirectories in `/var/log/archivematica`, such as
`/var/log/archivematica/MCPServer/MCPServer.debug.log`. Starting with
Archivematica 1.7.0, logging configuration defaults to using stdout and stderr
for all logs. If no changes are made to the new default configuration, logs
will be handled by whichever process is managing Archivematica's services. For
example on Ubuntu 16.04 or Centos 7, Archivematica's processes are managed by
systemd. Logs for the MCPServer can be accessed using
`sudo journalctl -u archivematica-mcp-server`. On Ubuntu 14.04, upstart is used
instead of systemd, so logs are usually found in `/var/log/upstart`. When
running Archivematica using docker, `docker-compose logs` commands can be used
to access the logs from different containers.

The MCPServer will look in `/etc/archivematica` for a file called
`serverConfig.logging.json`, and if found, this file will override the default
behaviour described above.

The [`serverConfig.logging.json`](./serverConfig.logging.json) file in this
directory provides an example that implements the logging behaviour used in
Archivematica 1.6.1 and earlier.

Commit message:

MCPServer: add SS timeout config
We're using the SS client in upcoming commits. This commit provides the
configuration attribute that is necessary by the client.

src/MCPServer/install/README.md, after:

# MCPServer Configuration

## Table of contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
- [Configuration file](#configuration-file)
- [Parameter list](#parameter-list)
- [Logging configuration](#logging-configuration)

## Introduction

Archivematica components can be configured using multipe methods.  All 
components follow the same pattern:

1. **Environment variables** - setting a configuration parameter with an 
   environment variable will override all other methods.
1. **Configuration file** - if the parameter is not set by an environment 
   variable, the component will look for a setting in its default configuration file.
1. **Application defaults**  - if the parameter is not set in an environment 
   variable or the config file, the application default is used.

Logging behaviour is configured differently, and provides two methods:

1. **`logging.json` file** - if a JSON file is present in the default location,
    the contents of the JSON file will control the components logging behaviour.
1. **Application default** - if no JSON file is present, the default logging 
   behaviour is to write to standard streams (standard out and standard error).

MCPServer specific details are provided below.

## Environment variables

The value of an environment variable is a string of characters. The
configuration system coerces the value to the types supported:

- `string` (e.g. `"foobar"`)
- `int` (e.g. `"60"`)
- `float` (e.g. `"1.20"`)
- `boolean` where truth values can be represented as follows (checked in a
  case-insensitive manner):
  - True (enabled):  `"1"`, `"yes"`, `"true"` or `"on"`
  - False (disabled): `"0"`, `"no"`, `"false"` or `"off"`

Certain environment strings are mandatory, i.e. they don't have defaults and
the application will refuse to start if the user does not provide one.

Please be aware that Archivematica supports different types of distributions
(Ubuntu/CentOS packages, Ansible or Docker images) and they may override some
of these settings or provide values to mandatory fields.

## Configuration file

There is an example configuration file for MCPServer included in the source 
code: (see [`the example`](./serverConfig.conf))

MCPClient will look for a configuration file in one of two locations:

- `/etc/archivematica/archivematicaCommon/dbsettings` 
- `/etc/archivematica/MCPServer/serverConfig.conf` 

Traditionally, the dbsettings file was used to hold mysql login credentials, 
which are then shared with other Archivematica components like MCPClient.  
Database credentials can be set in the serverConfig.conf file instead, or 
non-database parameters could be set in the dbsettings file.

## Parameter list

This is the full list of variables supported by MCPServer:

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_DJANGO_SECRET_KEY`**:
    - **Description:** a secret key used for cryptographic signing. See [SECRET_KEY](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#secret-key) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.django_secret_key`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - :red_circle: **Mandatory!**

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_SHAREDDIRECTORY`**:
    - **Description:** location of the Archivematica Shared Directory.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.sharedDirectory`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_PROCESSINGXMLFILE`**:
    - **Description:** name of the processing configuration file.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.processingXMLFile`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"processingMCP.xml"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_MCPARCHIVEMATICASERVER`**:
    - **Description:** address of the Gearman server.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.MCPArchivematicaServer`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"localhost:4730"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_WATCHDIRECTORYPATH`**:
    - **Description:** location of the Archivematica Watched Directories.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.watchDirectoryPath`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/watchedDirectories/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_PROCESSINGDIRECTORY`**:
    - **Description:** loation of the processing directory.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.processingDirectory`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"/var/archivematica/sharedDirectory/currentlyProcessing/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_REJECTEDDIRECTORY`**:
    - **Description:** location of the rejected directory.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.rejectedDirectory`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `"%%sharedPath%%rejected/"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_WAITONAUTOAPPROVE`**:
    - **Description:** number of seconds that a thread will wait before attempting to approve a chain when it is pre-configured.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.waitOnAutoApprove`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"0"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_SEARCH_ENABLED`**:
    - **Description:** controls whether Elasticsearch is enabled. This can affect which options the MCP server makes available for user choices. E.g., If search is disabled, then the MCP server will not make the "Send to backlong" option available at the "Create SIP(s)" choice point.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.search_enabled`
    - **Type:** `boolean`
    - **Default:** `true`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_STORAGE_SERVICE_CLIENT_TIMEOUT`**:
    - **Description:** configures the Storage Service client to stop waiting for a response after a given number of seconds.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPClient.storage_service_client_timeout`
    - **Type:** `float`
    - **Default:** `86400`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_STORAGE_SERVICE_CLIENT_QUICK_TIMEOUT`**:
    - **Description:** configures the Storage Service client to stop waiting for a response after a given number of seconds. This applies only to requests that are supposed to return immediately.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPClient.storage_service_client_timeout`
    - **Type:** `float`
    - **Default:** `5`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_WORKERS`**:
    - **Description:** numbers of internal threaded workers. Workers process background operations (jobs) queued by Gearman. This is an internal mechanism in MCPServer to execute jobs asynchronously with the support of Gearman.
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.workers`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"2"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_MCPSERVER_WATCHDIRECTORIESPOLLINTERVAL`**:
    - **Description:** time in seconds between filesystem poll intervals .
    - **Config file example:** `MCPServer.watchDirectoriesPollInterval`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"1"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_LIMITTASKTHREADS`**:
    - **Description:** max. number of threads that MCPServer will run simultaneously.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.limitTaskThreads`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"75"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_LIMITTASKTHREADSSLEEP`**:
    - **Description:** number of seconds that the application will wait before trying to start a new thread when the limit is reached.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.limitTaskThreadsSleep`
    - **Type:** `float`
    - **Default:** `"0.2"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_LIMITGEARMANCONNECTIONS`**:
    - **Description:** max. number of concurrent connections to Gearman server.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.limitGearmanConnections`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"10000"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_PROTOCOL_RESERVEDASTASKPROCESSINGTHREADS`**:
    - **Description:** max. number of concurrent processing threads running foreground Gearman jobs.
    - **Config file example:** `protocol.reservedAsTaskProcessingThreads`
    - **Type:** `int`
    - **Default:** `"8"`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_ENGINE`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.engine`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `django.db.backends.mysql`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_DATABASE`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.database`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `MCP`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_USER`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.user`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `archivematica`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_PASSWORD`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.password`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `demo`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_HOST`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.host`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `localhost`

- **`ARCHIVEMATICA_MCPSERVER_CLIENT_PORT`**:
    - **Description:** a database setting. See [DATABASES](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/ref/settings/#databases) for more details.
    - **Config file example:** `client.port`
    - **Type:** `string`
    - **Default:** `3306`

## Logging configuration

Archivematica 1.6.1 and earlier releases are configured by default to log to
subdirectories in `/var/log/archivematica`, such as
`/var/log/archivematica/MCPServer/MCPServer.debug.log`. Starting with
Archivematica 1.7.0, logging configuration defaults to using stdout and stderr
for all logs. If no changes are made to the new default configuration, logs
will be handled by whichever process is managing Archivematica's services. For
example on Ubuntu 16.04 or Centos 7, Archivematica's processes are managed by
systemd. Logs for the MCPServer can be accessed using
`sudo journalctl -u archivematica-mcp-server`. On Ubuntu 14.04, upstart is used
instead of systemd, so logs are usually found in `/var/log/upstart`. When
running Archivematica using docker, `docker-compose logs` commands can be used
to access the logs from different containers.

The MCPServer will look in `/etc/archivematica` for a file called
`serverConfig.logging.json`, and if found, this file will override the default
behaviour described above.

The [`serverConfig.logging.json`](./serverConfig.logging.json) file in this
directory provides an example that implements the logging behaviour used in
Archivematica 1.6.1 and earlier.
